How To Make Focaccia Bread:

Ingredients

    1 1/3 cup warm water (about 110°F)
    2 teaspoons sugar or honey
    1 (0.25 ounce) package active-dry yeast
    3 1/2 cups all purpose flour
    1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil, plus more for drizzling
    2 teaspoons flaky sea salt, plus extra for sprinkling*
    2 sprigs fresh rosemary


Here are the basic steps to make this rosemary focaccia bread recipe (full instructions included in the recipe below, as always):

1.    Proof the yeast. In the warm water and sugar.  (I highly recommend using a thermometer to measure the temperature of the water, so that it is not too hot or too cold.)
2.    Knead the dough*. Gradually add in the flour, olive oil and salt.  Then knead for 5 minutes using the dough attachment or a stand mixer, or knead the dough by hand.
3.    First dough rise. Shape the dough into a ball and place it in a greased mixing bowl, and cover with a damp towel.  Let the dough rest in a warm location for 45-60 minutes, or until it has doubled in size.
4.    Second dough rise.  Shape the dough into a large circle or rectangle until that the dough is about 1/2-inch thick*.  Cover and let the dough continue to rise for another 20 minutes.
5.    Prepare the dough. Heat oven to 400°F. Transfer the dough to a large parchment-covered baking sheet (or press it into a 9 x 13-inch baking dish).  Use your fingers to poke deep dents — like seriously, poke all the way down until you touch the baking sheet — all over the surface of the dough.  Then drizzle a tablespoon or two of olive oil evenly all over the top of the dough, and sprinkle evenly with the fresh rosemary needles and sea salt.
6.    Bake. Bake for 20 minutes, or until the dough is slightly golden and cooked through.
7.    Serve. Remove from the oven, and drizzle with a little more olive oil if desired. Slice, and serve warm.

*If you do not have a stand mixer, no prob!  Just complete step 1 in a large mixing bowl.  Gradually stir in the flour, olive oil and salt until a shaggy dough begins to form.  Then turn the dough out onto a floured surface and knead by hand for 5 minutes until smooth, adding extra flour if the dough feels too sticky, and continue on with the recipe as directed.

